Document the Faker connector (#23901)
trinodb/trino: docs/src/main/sphinx/connector/faker.md

> # Faker connector

Reviewer: Do we ever anticipate supporting other faker libraries in this connector? Should we rename it to datafaker connector? To follow the name of the upstream library? 

Also should we use the logo of datafaker here?

Author: The first Faker library was written in Perl, then ported to Ruby, and then to most other programming languages. Datafaker is not the only one available in Java, but I've chosen it since it's actively maintained, and attracts lots of contributions over the last 2 years.

Right now, there's no reason to replace it, but it's always an option. Supporting multiple ones will be confusing to users.

I chose to name the connector faker, since it's short, unique, easy to pronounce, type, and sets the right expectations for anyone that used these faker libraries in any language. Definitely better than `trino-random-generator` :-)

Reviewer: Ok .. lets not use the datafaker log .. but still explain that the library is used for some important parts of the plugin in a secondary sentence on the intro.

> The Faker connector generates realistically looking random data matching a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Faker connector generates realistically looking, random data matching a
```

> The Faker connector generates realistically looking random data matching a

Reviewer: Somewhere in here link to datafaker.net

Author: See my other comment, using Datafaker in this connector is not the core feature.

Reviewer: ok .. I think we probably still want to explain the fact that it is used in to the intro

> specific schema.

Reviewer: schema is kinda a bad term in this context .. since its not the catalog/schema/table you are referring to right?

Maybe we can say something like "matching a defined structure"?

## Configuration

> To configure the Faker connector, create a catalog properties file

Reviewer: The connector can create data in Trino and allowing querying it. Create a catalog
properties file that specifies the Faker connector by setting the
`connector.name` to `faker`.

For example, to access data as the `example` catalog, create the file
`etc/catalog/example.properties`. Replace the connection properties as
appropriate for your setup:

`etc/catalog/example.properties` with the following contents:

```text
connector.name=faker

> ```

Reviewer: And there is no other configuration whatsoever?

Author: There are only two, mentioned in the following sections. I'll add them in this example, since changing their defaults should be relatively common.

## Examples

> Faker generates data when reading from a table created in a catalog using this

Reviewer: I think we have to break the whole flow here up into separate steps .. here is what I think you want to say

* There is an existing table somewhere with a specific setup for columns and data types production.public.customer
* you can create a table with faker that can act as data generator using that format in a catalog called "example" (see configuration) that uses the faker connector .. if you want you can also change the name to generator or so .. but NOT faker
* related question .. do you have to create the default schema in it?
* can you create other schema in it?
* we need to document the CREATE TABLE LIKE syntax with this PR and link to it

Author: That's correct. The first paragraph is supposed to explain why and how to work with existing schemas in other catalogs.

I replaced the `example` catalog with `generator`, much better and avoids repeating `example`.

It already includes the `default` schema, and is ready to use out of the box. You can create additional schemas to match other catalogs and/or to use different defaults for null probability and default limit (same as the scale factor in tpch).

WDYT link to `CREATE TABLE LIKE`? It's documented in [CREATE TABLE](https://trino.io/docs/current/sql/create-table.html), I don't think we need a separate page for it, but maybe a linkable section. LMK if that's what you mean. BTW `CREATE TABLE AS SELECT * FROM other_catalog.table WITH NO DATA` would also work, but it's more verbose.

Reviewer: Yeah .. sorry .. I was looking at old docs .. we should probably link to that section to help users

Author: I'll mark this as resolved for now, but I didn't add any extra links. If you think it's needed, please comment on specific parts again.

connector. This makes it easy to fill an existing schema with random data, by
copying only the schema into a Faker catalog, and inserting the data back into
the original tables.

```sql

> CREATE TABLE faker.default.customer (LIKE production.public.customer EXCLUDING PROPERTIES);

Reviewer: This creates the specific generator

Author: Should I add this as a SQL comment, or break down the example into separate code blocks?

> INSERT INTO production.public.customers

Reviewer: this inserts data from the generator into the actual target table in another catalog!

SELECT *
FROM faker.default.customers

> WHERE

Reviewer: All this defines the generated data in terms of additional bounds beyond the generator definition

  born_at BETWEEN CURRENT_DATE - INTERVAL '150' YEAR AND CURRENT_DATE
  AND age_years BETWEEN 0 AND 150
LIMIT 100;
```

To generate more realistic data, choose specific generators by setting the
`generator` property on columns:

```sql
SHOW CREATE TABLE production.public.customers;

-- copy the output of the above query and add some properties:
CREATE TABLE faker.default.customer (
  id UUID NOT NULL,
  name VARCHAR NOT NULL WITH (generator = '#{Name.first_name} #{Name.last_name}'),
  address VARCHAR NOT NULL WITH (generator = '#{Address.fullAddress}'),
  born_at DATE,
  age_years INTEGER
);
```

> See the Datafaker's documentation for more information about

Reviewer: We should probaly link to the datafaker.net site in the intro on the top of the docs

Reviewer: also .. we should add data faker to the trino.io website and trino ot the datafaker website .. do you want to work on that @nineinchnick ?

Author: The Datafaker usage is optional in this connector - it's only used for character based data types, and only when a generator is chosen explicitly.

I'll definitely reach out to the author of Datafaker after 464 is out.

Reviewer: > The Datafaker usage is optional in this connector - it's only used for character based data types, and only when a generator is chosen explicitly.

Lets explain that in the intro. 

> I'll definitely reach out to the author of Datafaker after 464 is out, and these docs are published, since they explain the usage well.

Great.. I can help on getting it onto the trino website

[the expression](https://www.datafaker.net/documentation/expressions/) syntax
and [available providers](https://www.datafaker.net/documentation/providers/).

> ## Generators

Reviewer: I kinda think we should document this first.. and then how to use the generator to insert data into somewhere else

also .. 

first how to create a plain generator table straight without any existing table 

then how to make it more complex and tweak it

then how to emulate another table

Author: There are two use cases for this connector:
1. Populating an existing database with realistically looking data, to test another application using this database.
2. Testing Trino itself, by populating some data source, and running queries that read data from it using another connector, like Iceberg. 

Only generating data, without copying an existing schema, is something you can do without this connector.

Choosing generators is optional and more complex than just doing a `CREATE TABLE LIKE`. 

We also don't recommend benchmarking Trino by reading from random data generators, as it's CPU bound, and doesn't utilize a lot of other parts of the engine.

I understand that the structure you proposed start with a simple task, and is supposed to be a complete reference, but it's too abstract.

Reviewer: This is great .. we should explain all that in the docs.

> ## Generators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data generation
```

A particular data generator is selected based on the column type.

For `CHAR`, `VARCHAR`, and `VARBINARY` column, the default generator uses the

> `Lorem ipsum` placeholder text. Unbounded columns return a random sentence with

Reviewer: Link to that on wikipedia or whereever.

Reviewer: Maybe we should have a table of all supported data types and what is happening and supported in terms of defining bounds, default values, invalid values, enums and whatever

Author: I listed the unsupported data types in the `Type mapping` section, since there are very few of them, and supporting them is just not practical. All the supported data types are grouped into character and non-character types, and share the same properties, that's why I haven't added a table or list.

3 to 40 words.

To have more control over the format of the generated data, use the `generator`
column property. Some examples of valid generator expressions:

- `#{regexify '(a|b){2,3}'}`
- `#{regexify '\\.\\*\\?\\+'}`
- `#{bothify '????','false'}`
- `#{Name.first_name} #{Name.first_name} #{Name.last_name}`
- `#{number.number_between '1','10'}`

To test a generator expression, without having to recreate the table, use the
`random_string(expression)` function:

```sql
SELECT random_string('#{Name.first_name}')
```

Generator expressions cannot be used for non-character-based columns. To limit
their data range, specify constraints in the `WHERE` clause.

> ## Number of generated rows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Number of generated rows
```

By default, the connector generates 100 rows for every table. To control how
many rows are generated for a table, use the `LIMIT` clause in the query. A
default limit can be set using the `default_limit` table, or schema property or
in the connector configuration file, using the `faker.default-limit` property.

> ## Null values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Null values
```

For columns without the `NOT NULL` constraint, null values are generated using
the default probability of 50%. It can be modified using the `null_probability`
property set for a column, table, or schema. The default value of 0.5 can be
also modified in the connector configuration file, by using the
`faker.null-probability` property.

(faker-type-mapping)=
## Type mapping

The Faker connector generates data itself, so no mapping is required.

It supports all built-in Trino data types, except for:
- structural types: arrays, maps, rows
- JSON
- Geometry
- HyperLogLog and all digest types

> To generate data using these complex types, data from column of primitive types

Reviewer: Add at leas one example .. e.g. JSON or array is probably a good start

# Faker connector

The Faker connector generates realistically looking, random data matching a
defined structure.

## Configuration

The connector can create data in Trino and allowing querying it. Create a
catalog properties file that specifies the Faker connector by setting the
`connector.name` to `faker`.

For example, to access data as the `generator` catalog, create the file
`etc/catalog/generator.properties`. Replace the connection properties as
appropriate for your setup:

```text
connector.name=faker

> faker.null-probability=0.1

Reviewer: Lets still have a table with these two properties right after this example

faker.default-limit=1000
```

> ## Examples

Reviewer: I kind think we should have the examples after the type mapping and sql support .. and yes.. thats not the case in other connector docs.

Author: I renamed this section to `Usage`. It's really important to show that the basic usage is only 2 queries, without having to list all columns.

connector. This makes it easy to fill an existing schema with random data, by
copying only the schema into a Faker catalog, and inserting the data back into
the original tables.

```sql
CREATE TABLE faker.default.customer (LIKE production.public.customer EXCLUDING PROPERTIES);

INSERT INTO production.public.customers
SELECT *
FROM faker.default.customers
WHERE
  born_at BETWEEN CURRENT_DATE - INTERVAL '150' YEAR AND CURRENT_DATE
  AND age_years BETWEEN 0 AND 150
LIMIT 100;
```

To generate more realistic data, choose specific generators by setting the
`generator` property on columns:

```sql
SHOW CREATE TABLE production.public.customers;

-- copy the output of the above query and add some properties:
CREATE TABLE faker.default.customer (
  id UUID NOT NULL,
  name VARCHAR NOT NULL WITH (generator = '#{Name.first_name} #{Name.last_name}'),
  address VARCHAR NOT NULL WITH (generator = '#{Address.fullAddress}'),
  born_at DATE,
  age_years INTEGER
);
```

See the Datafaker's documentation for more information about
[the expression](https://www.datafaker.net/documentation/expressions/) syntax
and [available providers](https://www.datafaker.net/documentation/providers/).

> ## Data generation

Reviewer: To a large degree this whole data generation is actually part of configuration .. lets move it there.

Author: All the configuration is optional. I want to first show users the simplest use case. Maybe I can move creating the catalog from `Configuration` to `Usage`, keep the properties reference in `Configuration`, and then merge it with `Data generation`?

Author: I moved things around, PTAL

A particular data generator is selected based on the column type.

> For `CHAR`, `VARCHAR`, and `VARBINARY` column, the default generator uses the

Author: I broke it down into 3 sections and explicitly listed all data types, but not as tables. LMK what you think.

- `#{number.number_between '1','10'}`

To test a generator expression, without having to recreate the table, use the
`random_string(expression)` function:

```sql
SELECT random_string('#{Name.first_name}')
```

Generator expressions cannot be used for non-character-based columns. To limit
their data range, specify constraints in the `WHERE` clause.

### Number of generated rows

By default, the connector generates 100 rows for every table. To control how
many rows are generated for a table, use the `LIMIT` clause in the query. A
default limit can be set using the `default_limit` table, or schema property or
in the connector configuration file, using the `faker.default-limit` property.

### Null values

For columns without the `NOT NULL` constraint, null values are generated using
the default probability of 50%. It can be modified using the `null_probability`
property set for a column, table, or schema. The default value of 0.5 can be
also modified in the connector configuration file, by using the
`faker.null-probability` property.

(faker-type-mapping)=
## Type mapping

The Faker connector generates data itself, so no mapping is required.

> It supports all built-in Trino data types, except for:

Reviewer: From here on down it is really all about data generation again.. so we should move up to that section

Author: Done!

# Faker connector

The Faker connector generates random data matching a defined structure. It uses

> the [Datafaker](https://www.datafaker.net/) library, which makes the generated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [Datafaker](https://www.datafaker.net/) library to make the generated
```

> data more realistic. It can be used to easily populate another data source with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data more realistic. Use the connector to easily populate another data source with
```

> large and realistic test data, which can help with testing performance of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
large and realistic test data for testing performance of
```

> applications processing data (like Trino itself), and also application's user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
applications processing data, including Trino itself, and application user
```

> interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interfaces.
```

Once this is merged .. reread the sentence and ensure it makes sense.

Author: The sentence was too long, so I broke it down into two.

> 

Reviewer: After the intro we typically have a Requirements section .. I am not sure if we should have that .. given that there are no requirements ..right?

Reviewer: Lets leave it out then.

> ## Usage

Reviewer: I think we should move this section down after SQL support so we are consistent with other connectors.

Author: It makes me sad, but I moved it.

Reviewer: Ultimately we should decide consistently for all connectors. We should have some of the generic stuff in some generic catalog docs / tutorial and then pull out redundant stuff from connector docs. I just never got around to completing that .. ideally @jhlodin @Ordinant and team could do more on that but I dont want to start this now in this connector without a larger plan .. I hope that makes sense

> Faker generates data when reading from a table created in a catalog using this

Reviewer: This is a great description for this Usage or Examples section.

connector. This makes it easy to fill an existing schema with random data, by
copying only the schema into a Faker catalog, and inserting the data back into

> the original tables.

Reviewer: Finish this paragraph with something like

Using the catalog definition from Configuration you can proceed with the following steps:

> Create a catalog properties file that specifies the Faker connector by setting

Reviewer: This part should go into Configuration like in all other connector docs.

the `connector.name` to `faker`.

For example, to access data as the `generator` catalog, create the file
`etc/catalog/generator.properties`. Replace the connection properties as
appropriate for your setup:

```text
connector.name=faker
faker.null-probability=0.1
faker.default-limit=1000
```

> Create a table with the same columns as in the table to be populated with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a table with the same columns as in the table to populate with
```

random data. Exclude all properties, because the Faker connector doesn't

> support same properties as other connectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
support the same table properties as other connectors.
```

```sql

> CREATE TABLE generator.default.customer (LIKE production.public.customer EXCLUDING PROPERTIES);

Reviewer: Somewhere we need to detail that the default schema automatically exists.

Author: Added in the configuration section.

```

> Insert random data into the original table, by selecting it from the Faker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Insert random data into the original table, by selecting it from the `generator` catalog. 
```

> connector. Data generated for columns of non-character types cover the whole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connector. Data generated by the Faker connector for columns of non-character types cover the whole
```

> range of that data type, so to make it more practical, adding constraints might

Reviewer: ```suggestion
range of that data type. Add constraints to adjust the data as desired. For example the following example ensures that date of birth and age in years are related and realistic values.
```

also .. maybe adjust to <100 or even <80

Author: Be optimistic! Jimmy Carter recently had his 100 birthday, and can't play with Lego anymore :-P

be necessary.

```sql
INSERT INTO production.public.customers
SELECT *
FROM generator.default.customers
WHERE
  born_at BETWEEN CURRENT_DATE - INTERVAL '150' YEAR AND CURRENT_DATE
  AND age_years BETWEEN 0 AND 150
LIMIT 100;
```

To generate even more realistic data, choose specific generators by setting the

> `generator` property on columns. Start with getting the complete definition of a table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`generator` property on columns. Start with getting the complete definition of a table:
```

```sql
SHOW CREATE TABLE production.public.customers;
```

Modify the output of the previous query and add some column properties.

```sql
CREATE TABLE generator.default.customer (
  id UUID NOT NULL,

>   name VARCHAR NOT NULL WITH (generator = '#{Name.first_name} #{Name.last_name}'),

Reviewer: So somewhere we have to document this table property .. probably in the Configuration section .. so far this is only implied but not explicitly documented

Author: I added tables for all schema, table and column properties.

  address VARCHAR NOT NULL WITH (generator = '#{Address.fullAddress}'),
  born_at DATE,
  age_years INTEGER
);
```

## Configuration

The following table details all general configuration properties:

:::{list-table} Faker configuration properties
:widths: 35, 55, 10
:header-rows: 1

* - Property name
  - Description
  - Default
* - `faker.null-probability`
  - Default null probability for any column in any table that allows them.
  - `0.5`
* - `faker.default-limit`
  - Default number of rows for each table, when the LIMIT clause is not specified in the query.
  - `1000`
:::

> A particular data generator is selected based on the column type.

Reviewer: Somewhere here we probably want to say that with the 'generator' table property you can assign specific generators definitions to a columns.. and defaults are automatically done somehow

Author: I removed this sentence and the table with column properties explains the default now.

### Character types

Faker supports the following character types:

- `CHAR`
- `VARCHAR`
- `VARBINARY`

Columns of those types use a generator producing the [Lorem
ipsum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lorem_ipsum) placeholder text. Unbounded
columns return a random sentence with 3 to 40 words.

> To have more control over the format of the generated data, use the `generator`

Reviewer: Ahah .. here it is buried... move it up to earlier.

column property. Some examples of valid generator expressions:

- `#{regexify '(a|b){2,3}'}`
- `#{regexify '\\.\\*\\?\\+'}`
- `#{bothify '????','false'}`
- `#{Name.first_name} #{Name.first_name} #{Name.last_name}`
- `#{number.number_between '1','10'}`

See the Datafaker's documentation for more information about
[the expression](https://www.datafaker.net/documentation/expressions/) syntax
and [available providers](https://www.datafaker.net/documentation/providers/).

To test a generator expression, without having to recreate the table, use the

> `random_string(expression)` function:

Reviewer: What function is that? We dont have docs for that .. at least not in https://trino.io/docs/current/functions/list.html#r

Author: It's provided by this connector.

Reviewer: As a global function? Do we need to add it to the functions docs then? if not .. dont you need to specify catalog or something before being able to use it?

Author: Yes, it's a global function:

```
trino> show functions like 'random_expression';
     Function      | Return Type | Argument Types | Function Type | Deterministic |                      Description                       
-------------------+-------------+----------------+---------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------
 random_expression | varchar     | varchar        | scalar        | true          | Generate a random string based on the Faker expression 
(1 row)
```

Author: Added to the string functions page and both list of functions.

Author: Whoops, I just noticed it should NOT be deterministic. I'll fix this in a separate PR.

Author: https://github.com/trinodb/trino/pull/23977

Reviewer: cool .. question .. why is the function in the faker codebase if it is a global function? Does it require a catalog with the connector so it works? Its kinda odd how this is set up .. maybe we should discuss how this works and is set up.

Author: We already do this, another example is the `trino-geospatial` plugin that only provides functions.

Reviewer: Ok .. and the plugin is loaded automatically anyway .. so the only way this will fail is when that plugin is not even bundled .. we need to take this into account for #22597

```sql
SELECT random_string('#{Name.first_name}')
```

### Non-character types

Faker supports the following non-character types:

- `BIGINT`
- `INTEGER` or `INT`
- `SMALLINT`
- `TINYINT`
- `BOOLEAN`
- `DATE`
- `DECIMAL`
- `REAL`
- `DOUBLE`
- `INTERVAL DAY TO SECOND`
- `INTERVAL YEAR TO MONTH`
- `TIMESTAMP` and `TIMESTAMP(P)`
- `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE` and `TIMESTAMP(P) WITH TIME ZONE`
- `TIME` and `TIME(P)`
- `TIME WITH TIME ZONE` and `TIME(P) WITH TIME ZONE`
- `IPADDRESS`
- `UUID`

> Generator expressions cannot be used for non-character-based columns. To limit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can not use generator expressions for non-character-based columns. To limit
```

their data range, specify constraints in the `WHERE` clause.

### Unsupported types

Faker does not support the following data types:

- structural types: `ARRAY`, `MAP`, `ROW`
- `JSON`
- Geometry
- HyperLogLog and all digest types

To generate data using these complex types, data from column of primitive types
can be combined, like in the following example.

```sql
CREATE TABLE faker.default.prices (
  currency VARCHAR NOT NULL WITH (generator = '#{Currency.code}'),
  price DECIMAL(8,2) NOT NULL
);

SELECT JSON_OBJECT(KEY currency VALUE price) AS complex
FROM faker.default.prices
WHERE price > 0
LIMIT 3;
```

Executing these queries should return data structured like this:
```
      complex
-------------------
 {"TTD":924657.82}
 {"MRO":968292.49}
 {"LTL":357773.63}
(3 rows)
```

### Number of generated rows

By default, the connector generates 1000 rows for every table. To control how
many rows are generated for a table, use the `LIMIT` clause in the query. A
default limit can be set using the `default_limit` table, or schema property or
in the connector configuration file, using the `faker.default-limit` property.

### Null values

> For columns without the `NOT NULL` constraint, null values are generated using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For columns without a `NOT NULL` constraint, null values are generated using
```

> the default probability of 50%. It can be modified using the `null_probability`

Reviewer: Hm.. another column property .. maybe we need a list or even table of those at the start of this generator section

> property set for a column, table, or schema. The default value of 0.5 can be

Reviewer: I dont think we need to repeat this since we have it in the table

Author: It's important in this context, and readers might not think about checking the other section.

also modified in the connector configuration file, by using the
`faker.null-probability` property.

(faker-type-mapping)=
## Type mapping

The Faker connector generates data itself, so no mapping is required.

(faker-sql-support)=
## SQL support

The connector provides {ref}`globally available <sql-globally-available>` and
{ref}`read operation <sql-read-operations>` statements to generate data.

To define the schema for generating data, it supports the following features:

- {doc}`/sql/create-table`
- {doc}`/sql/create-table-as`
- {doc}`/sql/drop-table`
- {doc}`/sql/create-schema`
- {doc}`/sql/drop-schema`

## Limitations

> - Generated data is not deterministic. There is no way to specify a seed for

Reviewer: Do we maybe need to explain that since the implications I kinda odd .. if I run a query that analyses data in a catalog with a faker table twice .. the results will be different each time .. for example you have age colum and you do a count of people under 30 .. that will change if you run the query twice.. right? 

the only way to avoid that is to use the connector once so the data is inserted in a fixed table in another catalog..  

This is not obvious so i think we need to explain that

Author: Yes, same query returns different random data every time. That's exactly why I added this section. I added more detail, PTAL.

The connector is installed in the free Trino cluster available at `trino.rocks`, so you can test it yourself:
```
% trino trino.rocks
trino> select * from faker.default.primitives limit 10;
 currency |   price    
----------+------------
 RWF      |  554344.83 
 BHD      |  423285.44 
 HNL      |  444472.14 
 ETB      |   62409.52 
 MDL      |   29279.57 
 MOP      |  341507.29 
 FJD      | -698746.15 
 CNY      |  791697.12 
 MZN      | -809493.51 
 BWP      | -344078.60 
(10 rows)

trino> select * from faker.default.primitives limit 10;
 currency |   price    
----------+------------
 OMR      |  -75039.71 
 BBD      | -925266.91 
 HRK      |  541090.25 
 JPY      |  119664.79 
 BIF      | -196237.23 
 CNY      |  -91127.24 
 RON      |  437617.12 
 GBP      | -773280.08 
 TMT      |  203127.32 
 XPF      |   69625.73 
(10 rows)
```

Author: In the intro, we mention using this connector to populate a different data source.

Author: I'm not sure how to describe it more - as I said in the previous comment, I already added a mention of this at the top of this doc.

  the random generator.

> - All schema objects created in this connector are not persisted, and are

Reviewer: What does that mean for cluster restarts and also the above determinism ..  this is kinda complex and we need to detail that .. also .. whats the impact of this if I create a large table .. will it crash or prevent me from doing so?

Author: It means the schema will not be persisted across cluster restarts, and needs to be recreated every time before using it. I think it's implied by "are not persisted".

Reviewer: Thats what I thought .. I assume this is immune to worker restarts and scaling up and down though .. can you confirm and maybe add that info. Also .. maybe we can reword to make it clearer for normal users 

schema objects basically means all the definitions are stored .. and that only in memory

and at the same time .. data is NEVER stored .. its always generated

We have to word it so non-technical users understand and dont get wrong ideas. 

To some degree I think we could even explain that all in the intro rather than as a limitation.. is basically a design and feature that it works like that

Author: I moved it to the configuration section.

# Faker connector

The Faker connector generates random data matching a defined structure. It uses
the [Datafaker](https://www.datafaker.net/) library to make the generated data
more realistic. Use the connector to populate another data source with large
and realistic test data. This allows testing performance of applications
processing data, including Trino itself, and application user interfaces.

## Configuration

Create a catalog properties file that specifies the Faker connector by setting
the `connector.name` to `faker`.

For example, to generate data in the `generator` catalog, create the file
`etc/catalog/generator.properties`. Replace the connection properties as
appropriate for your setup.

```text
connector.name=faker
faker.null-probability=0.1
faker.default-limit=1000
```

Create tables in the `default` schema, or create different schemas first.

> Reading from tables in this catalog will return random data. See

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reading from tables in this catalog returns random data. See
```

Reviewer: ?

Author: Whoops, missed that one. I ran `vale` again and it spotted it.

```text
      complex
-------------------
 {"TTD":924657.82}
 {"MRO":968292.49}
 {"LTL":357773.63}
(3 rows)
```

### Number of generated rows

By default, the connector generates 1000 rows for every table. To control how
many rows are generated for a table, use the `LIMIT` clause in the query. A
default limit can be set using the `default_limit` table, or schema property or
in the connector configuration file, using the `faker.default-limit` property.

### Null values

For columns without a `NOT NULL` constraint, null values are generated using
the default probability of 50%. It can be modified using the `null_probability`
property set for a column, table, or schema. The default value of 0.5 can be
also modified in the connector configuration file, by using the
`faker.null-probability` property.

(faker-type-mapping)=
## Type mapping

The Faker connector generates data itself, so no mapping is required.

(faker-sql-support)=
## SQL support

The connector provides {ref}`globally available <sql-globally-available>` and
{ref}`read operation <sql-read-operations>` statements to generate data.

To define the schema for generating data, it supports the following features:

> - {doc}`/sql/create-table`

Reviewer: Use markdown syntax here

```suggestion
- [](/sql/create-table)
```

# Faker connector

The Faker connector generates random data matching a defined structure. It uses
the [Datafaker](https://www.datafaker.net/) library to make the generated data
more realistic. Use the connector to populate another data source with large
and realistic test data. This allows testing performance of applications
processing data, including Trino itself, and application user interfaces.

## Configuration

Create a catalog properties file that specifies the Faker connector by setting
the `connector.name` to `faker`.

For example, to generate data in the `generator` catalog, create the file

> `etc/catalog/generator.properties`. Replace the connection properties as

Reviewer: The connection stuff needs to go ;-)

appropriate for your setup.

```text
connector.name=faker
faker.null-probability=0.1
faker.default-limit=1000
```

Create tables in the `default` schema, or create different schemas first.
Reading from tables in this catalog will return random data. See
[](faker-usage) for more examples.

> All schema objects created in this connector are not persisted, and are stored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Schema objects created in this connector are not persisted, and are stored
```
